http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/2010/11/25/15-minute-writing-exercise-closes-the-gender-gap-in-university-level-physics/#.V4RMbp6mmV4
"The exercise is designed to affirm a person’s values, boosting their sense of self-worth and integrity, and reinforcing their belief in themselves. For people who suffer from negative stereotypes, this can make all the difference between success and failure."
worked for women in uni physics, african american kids in schools
"This isn’t the first time it has worked either. It was first used by Geoffrey Cohen (who Miyake works with) to turn the fortunes of black students in American high schools. They too face the problem of stereotype threat. In 2007, Cohen showed that his writing drill boosted the grades of black students, who still benefited even two years later. The gap between them and their white classmates narrowed and their grade point averages increased, particularly among the weakest students."

combating internalised discrimination such as sexism

stereotype threat
reminding people of their gender or race group stereotypes impacts performance - so 'girls are bad at math' actually causes a drop in performance
effect is also seen in children, but in that case varies by age (http://scienceblogs.com/cognitivedaily/2005/09/26/when-do-stereotypes-begin-to-t/)
BOM wanted to collect information on gender and aboriginal and torres straight islander status they asked *afterwards*
individual doesn't need to believe it, still increases anxiety -> depletes working memory
even worse when they wish to perform well
diminished confidence, poor performance, and loss of interest in the relevant area of achievement
break it by internalising accomplishments and confidence boosting
talking about a test measuring ability hurts performance of african american kids.
women perform better when surrounded by other women than men
can also happen in reverse
However, research has also shown that stereotype threat can cause individuals to blame themselves for perceived failures,[52] self-handicap,[2] discount the value and validity of performance tasks,[53] distance themselves from negatively stereotyped groups,[54] and disengage from situations that are perceived as threatening.[55]
"In one study, teaching college women about stereotype threat and its effects on performance was sufficient to eliminate the predicted gender gap on a difficult math test"

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stereotype_threat

http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/2009/06/01/gender-gap-in-maths-driven-by-social-factors-not-biological-differences/#.V4Rch56mmV4
" Various studies have found that countries with the poorest degrees of gender equality also have the widest gulfs between male and female mathematical performance. "
Australia is 36th - http://reports.weforum.org/global-gender-gap-report-2015/rankings/


http://reports.weforum.org/global-gender-gap-report-2015/economies/#economy=AUS
https://www.glassdoor.com/research/studies/gender-pay-gap/
3.9% difference for same job title, employer, location, age, education, years of experience


http://www.graduatecareers.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/GCA%20Gender%20Wage%20Gap%20Paper%20-%202013%20GDS%20-%2017%20June%202014%20FINAL.pdf
mean
57.9 - men
54.5 - women
3.4%

Writing therapy:
Writing therapy allows the person to organize their thoughts in writing. The written record of the person's objective accomplishments can enable the person to associate those accomplishments with reality, rather than simply dismissing the accomplishments internally. The written record can also remind the person of those accomplishments later. By these methods, writing therapy attempts to alleviate the person's sense of inadequacy.

The letters of appreciation - greens


http://www.paulineroseclance.com/pdf/ip_high_achieving_women.pdf
in success:
women attribute to temporary causes - luck
men attribute to internal, stable causes - ability
in failure reverse
internalised sexism
"We have not found repeated successes alone sufficient to break the cycle. "
" In  one  group  are  women  who  have  a  sibling  or  close  relative  who  have
been  designated  as  the  "intelligent"  member  of  the  family.    Each  of  the  women,  on  the  other
hand,  has  been  told  directly  or  indirectl
y  that  she  is  the  "sensitive"  or  socially  adept  one  in  the
family. "
second:
"The  family  conveys  to  the  girl  that  she  is  superior  in  every  way  -- intellect, personality, appearance, and talents."


Outing the imposter: study exploring IP among HE faculty
DOI:  10.1002/nha3.20098
"the experience of fraudulent thoughts and feelings and the inability to
attribute and internalize personal achievement"
"Common effects of sustained IP thoughts are increased bouts of depression
and anxiety"
"psychological distress"
"low self-confidence"
"adversely related to job well-being, satisfaction and performance"
"common among individuals with particular personality traits (e.g. neurot-
icism, conscientiousness, achievement-orientation), have perfectionist expectations over work" "and who work in highly competitive, stressful occupations similar to that of the academic environment"
Weiner’s (1985) attributional theory
"Emotional exhaustion represents the stress dimension of burnout
and often manifests itself by increased fatigue, depression, emotional and cognitive distancing from work resulting in
adverse work outcomes such as satisfaction and performance"
Mentors are helpful - normalising, emotional support, instrumental support, challenged to accept praise, unrealistic comparisons (negative)
67% didn't discuss the thoughts with their mentor, but they were still helpful
seeking emotional support from others, positive reinforcement, active coping skills (?), humor
more prevalent for untenured faculty - security?
self-directed (humor, positive reinforcement, distracting thoughts or activities) and social support (seeking
emotional support from others) approaches
For example, Lyden and her colleagues (2002) found that using a carefully structured feedback tech-
nique influenced the attributions individuals made concerning their performance, in so far as participants attributed
successful performance to ability (internal), and unsuccessful performance to lack of effort or other external attrib-
utes.
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361476X0191080X

Clance Imposter Phenomenon Scale
http://paulineroseclance.com/pdf/IPscoringtest.pdf
administer at the start
Do 3 from each of these categories: https://counseling.caltech.edu/general/InfoandResources/Impostor

"The experience seems to be more common among minorities, according to Clance, a clinical psychologist in Atlanta." http://www.apa.org/gradpsych/2013/11/fraud.aspx

"The impostor phenomenon seems to be more common among people who are embarking on a new endeavor, says Imes. In other words, graduate students may be particularly susceptible."

Good dealing with it section: https://counseling.caltech.edu/general/InfoandResources/Impostor

"Researchers  have  identified
a  number  of  factors  contributing  to  the
emergence    of    Impostorism,    including    perfectionism"
http://bsris.swu.ac.th/journal/i6/6-6_Jaruwan_73-92.pdf
"Clance (1985) suggested that the Impostor Phenomenon
is  marked  by  six  potential  characteristics:  (1)  The  Impostor  Cycle,  (2)  The need to be special or to be the very best, (3) Superman/Superwoman aspects;
(4) Fear of failure, (5) Denial of competence and Discounting praise, and (6)
Fear and guilt about success."
Minimum 2 characteristics to be imposter

Nice diagram on page 3
"Clanc
e (1985) has suggested that Impostors have high expectation
for their goals and have their own concept of ideal success.  Impostors disregard
their  success  if  there  is  any  gap  between  their  actual  performance
and  their
ideal  standard,  which  contributes  to
discounting  of  positive  feedback"
"Since
Impostors are high achievers who also “make unreasonably low assessments
of  their  performance”  (Want  &  Kleitman,  2006,  p.  969),  the  repetitions  of
success emphasise the discrepancy between their actual and ideal sta
ndards of
success as well as strengthening the feeling of being a fraud or an impostor."
"Predisposing    personality    traits,    such    as    neuroticism    and
perfectionism,  are  assumed  to  be  other  factors  which  contribute  to  the
emergence   of   Impostorism.   These   predisposing   personality   traits   are
assumed  to  be  stable  and  may  partly  contribute  to  the  format
ion  of  the
cognitive schema of a person. "

" Clance  (1985)
suggested  four  general  characteristics  of  the  family  that  contribute  to  the
perpetuation  of  the  Impostor  Phenomenon  from  many  of  her  patients‟
developmental histories: (1) the perception of Impostors that their talen
ts are
atypical  compared  with  family  members,  (2)  family  messages  that  convey
the  importance  of  intellectual  abilities  and  that  success  requires  little  effort,
(3)  discrepancy  between  feedback  about  Impostors‟  abilities  and  success
derived from family and
other sources, and (4) lack of positive reinforcement"

"With  a  sample  of  302  students,  Bussotti  found  that  CIPS  scores  were
negatively related to the Family Cohesion and Expressiveness subscales and
positively correlated with the Family Conflict and Family Control subscales
of  the  Family  E
nvironment  Scale.    These  four  subscales:  Family  Cohesion,
Family  Expressiveness,  Family  Conflict,  and  Family  Control,  accounted  for
12% of the variance in the CIPS scores "

"Sonnak  and  Towell  found  that
perceived   parental   control/overprotection   was   weakly   correlated   with
impostor fears, r = .27, while perceived parental care was inversely related, r
=
-
.41.  Sonnak  and  Towell  (2001)  concluded  that  pa
rental  overprotection
was a factor in development of impostor fears"

"Want  and  Kleitman  found  that  impostor  fears  were  weakly
correlated  with  high  levels  of  control  and  domination  by  both  mothers,  r  =
.25, an
d fathers, r = .34"

"Without  psychological  support  or  family  approval  of  the  child‟s
accomplishments,  the  child  may  feel  that  his  or  her  achievements  are
dismiss
ed,  unimpressive,  or  unimportant.    Feelings  of  shame,  humiliation,
and  inauthenticity  are  often  experienced  with  a  lack  of  consistent  positive
reinforcement"

"King   and   Cooley   (1995)   studied   the   r
elationship   between   family
achievement  orientation  and  the  development  of  impostor  fears  in  127
undergraduate  students.    A  weak  positive  relationship  between  impostor
fears   and   family   orientation   that   emphasised   achievement   value   and
competition  was  report
ed, r = .21."

"  In
addition,  confusing  messages  about  achievement  from  the  family  appeared
more  strongly  related  to  Imp
ostorism  than  family  achievement  values  that
emphasised achievement via competition.  "

  (2005)
  asserted  that  perfectionism  is  the  underlying  cau
  se  of  Neurotic  Imposture.
  Impostors set “excessively high, unrealistic goals and then experience self
  -
  defeating thoughts and behaviors when they can‟t reach those goals” (Kets
  de  Vries,  2005,  p.  112)"

" These  results  mean  Impostors  had  the  need  to
appear  to  be  capable,  competent  and  successful  in  order  to  gain  respect  and
admiration  from  others.    They  also  strived  to  conceal  their  imperfection  by
not  engaging  in  situations  when  they  were  likely  to  rev
eal  their  personal
limitations  to  others. "

"Impost
ors  will  openly
communicate   their   self
-
perception   of   imperfect   performance   to   others
(Ferrari & Thompson, 2006).  Impostors do not want to appear imperfect and
actively  attempt  to  conceal  their  imperfection,  but  paradoxically  Impostors
do  openly  disclose  t
heir  imperfection  to  others.    One  issue  is  how  far  the
characteristics of Impostors are interpersonal strategies, avoiding attributions
by others, as distinct from more concerned with their own self evaluation."

" behaviours  of
Impostors  can  be  viewed  as  self
-
presentational  strategies  used  to  avoid
negative  interpersonal  implications  of  potential  failure  by  engaging  in  self
-
deprecating behaviours,  such as discounting praise and positive feedback or
denyi
ng  that  they  are  as  competent  as  others  believe"
"Impostors  expressed  lower  performance  expectations  than  non
-
Impostors  only  when  their  performance  would  be  revealed  to  others,  while
Ferrari  and  Thompson  (2006)  found  CIPS  sc
ores  were  positively  correlated
with favourable impression management strategies."

Good consequences section

good sectino on on why it's a problem 255.full.pdf
"Kolligian
and Sternberg reported that the IP, or as
they termed it, “perceived fraudulence,”...
personality traits stuff in that page to the right 'Bernard, Dollinger, and Ramaniah
explored the connections between the
“Big Five” dimensions of personality'

"Rachel Singer
Gordon identified systems librarians as
a group more apt to experience feelings" - the reasons would also apply to devs

"field is changing so fast..."
drops with age
new positions still contribute
"“I know objectively that I am.."
"Vague expectations and inconsis..."
"times I feel old and out-of-date"
"an opinion and have it met with"
"feeling incompetent and being
incompetent are two different things"
entire conclusions and recommendations section

Mindy: "Nothing you do is ever good enough"

The imposter phenomenon among high-achieving women of color: Are worldview, collective self-esteem and multigroup ethnic identity protective?
"The relationship between racial identity attitudes, worldview, and African American graduate students' experience of the imposter phenomenon. "

"The  Imposter Phenomenon Among Afr ican  Amer   ican  Women in U.S. Inst  itut ions  of Hi gher   Education:  Implications for Counseling"
presumed incompetence because they are black makes it harder
"Sel   f- wo  rt h and self-rel  ian  ce  must be  int  ern  all  y ge ner  ate  d, wit   h hel   p fr om support networks  est  abl   ish  ed  in  and  ou t of  th e university setting  (Atwater,19 95)"
"Group
co uns   eli  ng  ex per  ien  ces
with
other
Afr   ican
American
women
can
also
be  extremely
helpful
(Tr  otman
& Gallagher,
1987)
. It is in the   black
women’s
group
that
th e bla ck wo  man  can  ex per  ie nce  a sa fe en vironment
in  which
she
can
speak
expressi
vely
and
dir  ectly
about
issues
of  vital
importance
to he r men ta l he alt  h,  whi   le deve
lopi   ng  and
modeling
her   unique
style
in the   int  im acy
and
love
of  her   black
sisters"
"The
black
wom
an  can
expl
ore
her  op tio  ns,   e.g.  ,
acquiescence
versu
s asse  rtive
ne ss,  as  a reac  tion   to ra cia  l oppr   ess  ion  ."
"A group
exp erien
ce  with  oth  er  ach  ievi   ng
bl ac k wome
n wh  o risk
explor
ing
the
com
mon
ali  ty  of  fra  udu   len  t
fe el ings
is par  ti cularly
ther   apeutic
in such
cases."

http://www.affektiv.hu/lib/exe/fetch.php?media=thompson_et_al_-_impostors.pdf

"impostors
reported
less
satisfaction,
lower
state
self-esteem,
and
being
in
a
worse
mood
after
subjective
failure
than
non-impostors, " - Cozzarelli and Major (1990)

Attributional
and
affective
responses
of
impostors
to
academic
success
and
failure
outcomes :

Some studies find and some don't find gender variation.

THE  IMPOSTOR  PHENOMENON:
RECENT  RESEARCH  FINDINGS  REGARDING
DYNAMICS,  PERSONALITY  AND  FAMILY  PATTERNS
AND  THEIR  IMPLICATIONS  FOR  TREATMENT:

" Impostors also described mem-
selves  as  holding,  to  a  high  degree,  a  view  of
intelligence as a fixed entity rather than as a mal-
leable quality"
when failed..."There was a strong posi-
tive correlation between
 a pattern
  of helpless reac-
  tions  and  impostor  feelings  as  measured  by  the
  Clance  IP Scale"
  "d entity tend
  to be
   motivated by "performance
    goals,"
     in which
     one  is  motivated  primarily  by  the  wish  to  prove
     one's  intelligence.  Dweck  has  found  that,  when
     people  with  performance  goals  experience  mis-
     takes or failure,  they tend to react in a "helpless"
     behavioral  pattern  in  which  they  withdraw  from
     the  task,  blame  themselves  for  the  failure,  and
     experience  anxiety  and  shame. "
     "motivated by the need to look  smart to others and
     are shaped by an overriding concern with others'
     impressions"
     "self-worth  seems to be unusually depen-
     dent on others'  feedback."
     "ly  in  trying  to
     live up to an idealized self-image of being intelli-
     gent  in  order  to  get  the  validation  necessary  to
     feel  good  about themselves.  As  long  as  admira-
     tion  from  others is  present,  they  may  maintain a
     feeling of
      worth,
       but when others are not validat-
       ing  them,  their  good  self-feeling  may  plummet
       since  it is  based  on  external  feedback."

       " Impostor
       phenomenon  scores  were  negatively  correlated
       with  the Cohesion  subscale,  which  measures  the
       degree  of  support  family  members  provide  one
       another,  and the Expressiveness  subscale,  which
       measures  the  degree  to  which  family  members
       are  allowed  to  be  open  with  their  feelings"
       "The
       impostor  experience   was  positively   correlated
       with  the  Conflict  subscale,  which  assesses  the
       amount  of  expressed  anger  and  conflict  in  the
       family,
        and
         the Control subscale, which measures
         the degree to which rules
          and
           procedures
            are
             used
             to govern family  behaviors.  "
             "Together,  these  four
             scales  accounted  for  12% of  the  variance  in im-
             postor phenomenon  scores,  giving  evidence  that
             people   who  experience   impostor   feelings   are
             likely  to  come  from  families  in  which  support
             for
              the
               individual is lacking, communications and
               behaviors,
                are
                  controlled  by  rules,  and  consider-
                  able conflict  is  present."

"t was found  that impostor
feelings  were  highly  correlated  with  a  need  to
please  others in the  family."
" the impostor phenomenon was
positively correlated with
 a
  high degree of "defen-
  dence,"  indicating  a  mistrustful,   self-protective
  attitude  toward  others,  and,  in  women  subjects,
  a   low   degree   of   "affiliation,"   an   enjoyable
  involvement  with  other  people,   and  "play,"  a
  tendency to do things for
   fun.
   "

   "For females,  impostor,  feelings
   had  low  correlations  with  impulsivity  and  need
   for change,  consistent  with  the  usual  description
   of  impostors  as  cautious  and  unlikely  to  engage
   in risk-taking.  For males,  on the other hand, im-
   postor feelings  were  associated  with high impul-
   sivity  and a strong need  for change,  as well  as a
   low need for
    order."

" Beard (1990) speculated that,
instead of dealing with their sense of  inadequacy
in the
 withdrawing style typical of females impos-
 tors,
   male  impostors  may  tend to compensate by
   pushing themselves in a frenetic  manner in order
   to prove their competency. "


"Beard speculated that
the  primacy  of  relationships  in  females'  value systems
 might
  prevent
   them
    from
     putting
       relation-
       ships  at risk by  taking  the  kinds of  chances that
       males  might  take  in  order  to  prove  themselves
       through achievements."

       "lthough people who exhibit impostor feel-
       ings do not seem to  suffer  from  generalized  low
       self-esteem,  their self-esteem,  at least in the area
       of achievement, is precarious, requiring a system
       of defenses  that is taxing  and anxiety-producing"

"Impostors  are  motivated  to  achieve  primarily  to
"look  smart," reflected in  a  strong  focus  on the
self  during  achievement  attempts  and a  concern
for  what  their  performance  indicates  to  others
about  their  abilities."

"When  validation
  of  the
    self
      is
      lacking,
       as
        appears
         to be the
          case
           in the
            families
            of those who develop impostor feelings,
             the
              child
              may compensate
               by
                trying
                 to
                  live
                   up to an
                    ideal-
                    ized image that will win the affirmation  from oth-
                    ers  that
                      is
                        necessary
                          for
                            self-esteem.
                             "

"The central task
 of
  psychotherapy  with impos-
  tors is to lessen the client's dependence on others'
  positive evaluations
   for
    his
     or
      her self-esteem  and
      to build
        a
         more  internalized  sense
           of
             serf-worth"

           How can therapist help?  "  a
               warm  acceptance
                 of  all
                   aspects
                     of the
                     person, an empathic understanding of the person's
                     internal  world,
                       and  an
                         attitude
                           in  the
                             therapist
                             of  genuineness
                               and
                                 emotional  honesty"


